{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;}{\stylesheet{\s1 Heading 1;}{\s2 Heading 2;}{\s3 Heading 3;}{\s4 Heading 4;}{\s5 Heading 5;}{\s6 Heading 6;}{\s7 Heading 7;}{\s8 Heading 8;}{\s9 Heading 9;}}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}\pard\sb373\sl547\qc {\*\bkmkstart ID_INDEX}{\*\bkmkend ID_INDEX}\b\fs49\f1 GNUe Reports Proposal\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 GNUe Reports Proposal}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 GNUe Reports Proposal}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart ID_STEPS}{\*\bkmkend ID_STEPS}\b\fs34\f1 Steps in the Process\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  These are the general steps in the process. The flowchart ({\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_REPORTFLOW}{\fldrslt Figure 1}}) gives a graphical representation of the ideas here. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj 1. Client submits report request to report engine \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  report definition selected \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  default or multiple defined (or none) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  output defined (printer, file, webpublish, stream(print preview)) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \lang1033 2. Report definition processed by report engine \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  report definition read \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  bizrules from report read \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  calls to gedi(libgda) used to receive data \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  data merged with specification of report definition \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  resulting xml file/stream created \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \lang1033 3. Notification returned to client \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  if no default just returns job done \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  if default then \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  resulting xml file/stream run through jade/xslt \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  desired format sent to output selected \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart ID_ARCHIVING}{\*\bkmkend ID_ARCHIVING}\b\fs34\f1 Archiving\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  The idea is in large environments often times there is need for static reporting that needs to be archived for large periods of time. This gives you several options. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj \b\lang1024 Example 1. Monthly Archives\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \b0\lang1033 Monthly you could have a batch process run your financials and only create the xml output to disk. Then you could have a web application that on request would run only step 3. Which would run through Jade/XSLT and give html back, or if these reports were accessed frequently maybe that batch process autogenerate the HTML files or PDF for archival. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart ID_REPORTMANAGEMENT}{\*\bkmkend ID_REPORTMANAGEMENT}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Report Management\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 This report server not only gives you flexible reporting in a client,but gives you lots of archiving flexibility something larger entities are desparate for. This could be a larger part of a document managment / paperless system. As a client could request multiple outputs. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj \b\lang1024 Example 2. Law Firm Revisions\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \b0\lang1033 I am a law firm. I draft a legal document that needs to be submitted. So I throw a copy to the printer and choose to save to file as pdf. Then two days later I make a few edits and do the same. I now have a built in history of the files as I sent them to the client for approval not just the most current copy. Normally I would have to print in duplicate and file one copy. This model removes that manual print and store process. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart ID_PEFORMANCE}{\*\bkmkend ID_PEFORMANCE}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Performance\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 These are just ideas from a few of us loons. We realize performance may take a hit, but we see a lot of repeat reporting in our locations where we woudl see VAST improvement. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj \b\lang1024 Example 3. We All Need The Same Data\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \b0\lang1033 10 directors all want the same report. If we did in a client they all 10 hit the database for the report. (which is a large consolidation so rather intense). \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  The alternative is to pre-print the report and hand to each of them. This model woudl allow us to batch said reports and create static html for online viewing and other formats for printing if need be. We can then save these if we want for archivals. Thus instead of 10 intense queries we have 1 intense query that happens in the middle of the night in off peak hours. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart ID_FLOWCHART}{\*\bkmkend ID_FLOWCHART}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Supporting Documentation\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960{\*\bkmkstart ID_REPORTFLOW}{\*\bkmkend ID_REPORTFLOW}{\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst INCLUDEPICTURE "reporter.eps" }{\fldrslt }}\keepn\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj \b Figure 1. GNUe Reports Flowchart\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj \b0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart ID_AUTHORS}{\*\bkmkend ID_AUTHORS}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Authors\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  This proposal was written by Derek Neighbors (<\fs18\f2 derek@gnue.org\fs20\f0 >) and Jade Meskill (<\fs18\f2 jade@gnue.org\fs20\f0 >). Please send all comments and suggestions regarding this proposal by sending an email to <\fs18\f2 info@gnue.org\fs20\f0 >. \hyphpar0\par}
