{\rtf1\ansi\deff0
{\fonttbl{\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Courier New;}
{\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Times New Roman;}
}
{\colortbl;}{\stylesheet{\s1 Heading 1;}{\s2 Heading 2;}{\s3 Heading 3;}{\s4 Heading 4;}{\s5 Heading 5;}{\s6 Heading 6;}{\s7 Heading 7;}{\s8 Heading 8;}{\s9 Heading 9;}}
\deflang1024\notabind\facingp\hyphauto1\widowctrl
\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}\pard\sl20 {\*\bkmkstart ID_DEVELOPERINTRO}{\*\bkmkend ID_DEVELOPERINTRO}\fs20 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb373\sl547\qc \b\fs49\f1 GNU Enterprise - Developers Introduction\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220 \b0\fs20\f0 \~\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb1991\sl380\qc \b\fs34\f1 James Thompson\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220\qc \fs24 GNU: Enterprise Core Development Team\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\sl380\qc \fs34 Derek Neighbors\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220\qc \fs24 GNU: Enterprise Core Development Team\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb1296\sl264\qc Edited by\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl380\qc \fs34 Derek Neighbors\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}\pard\sl20 \fs20 \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl-240 \b\f1 GNU Enterprise - Developers Introduction\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220 \b0\f0 by\~James Thompson and Derek Neighbors\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb220\sl220 by\~\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220 Edited by\~Derek Neighbors\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb220\sl220 Published Wed Jul 5 21:58:52 MST 2000\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220 Copyright\~\'a9\~2000 by Free Software Foundation\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\sl220 \fs16 Copyright (c) 2000 Free Software Foundation\hyphpar0\par\pard\sl220 Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1 or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation; with no Invariant Sections, with no Front-Cover Texts and with no Back-Cover Texts. A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU Free Documentation License".\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgnlcrm\pgnrestart\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl456 \b\fs41\f1 Table of Contents\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li1440\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _30 }{\fldrslt \fs20\f0 1. An Introduction for Developers}}\fs20\f0 \tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _30 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _30}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1920\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _32 }{\fldrslt \b0 Introduction}}\b0 \tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _32 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _32}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _35 }{\fldrslt Why?}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _35 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _35}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _58 }{\fldrslt Features}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _58 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _58}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _95 }{\fldrslt Examples}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _95 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _95}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2880\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _98 }{\fldrslt High Level Demo}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _98 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _98}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2880\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _107 }{\fldrslt Consultants}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _107 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _107}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _201 }{\fldrslt Templates/Packages}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _201 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _201}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _204 }{\fldrslt Categories}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _204 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _204}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2880\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _207 }{\fldrslt Standard}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _207 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _207}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2880\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _211 }{\fldrslt Extended}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _211 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _211}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2880\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _214 }{\fldrslt Unfriendly}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _214 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _214}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _217 }{\fldrslt Base Packages}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _217 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _217}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _254 }{\fldrslt Other Packages}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _254 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _254}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _257 }{\fldrslt Architecture}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _257 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _257}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _260 }{\fldrslt Back-end}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _260 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _260}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _264 }{\fldrslt Business Objects}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _264 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _264}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _267 }{\fldrslt Application}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _267 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _267}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _275 }{\fldrslt ICL}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _275 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _275}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _279 }{\fldrslt Tools}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _279 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _279}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _282 }{\fldrslt GNUe Forms}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _282 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _282}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _289 }{\fldrslt GNUe Reports}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _289 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _289}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _292 }{\fldrslt GEDI (GNU Enterprise Data Interface)}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _292 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _292}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _295 }{\fldrslt EWOK (Enterprise Wide Office Kommunication}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _295 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _295}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li2400\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _298 }{\fldrslt GEAS (GNU Enterprise Administration System)}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _298 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _298}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1440\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_APPENDIXES}{\fldrslt \b I. Appendixes}}\b \tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l ID_APPENDIXES}{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF ID_APPENDIXES}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb48\li1920\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _303 }{\fldrslt \b0 A. GNU General Public License}}\b0 \tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _303 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _303}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\pard\li1920\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _306 }{\fldrslt B. GNU Free Documentation License}}\tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _306 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _306}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgnlcrm\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl456 \b\fs41\f1 List of Tables\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li1440\sl220\fi-480 {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _219 }{\fldrslt \b0\fs20\f0 1-1. Base Packages}}\b0\fs20\f0 \tqr\tldot\tx8400\tab {\field{\*\fldinst   HYPERLINK  \\l _219 }{\fldrslt {\field\flddirty{\*\fldinst PAGEREF _219}{\fldrslt 000}}}}\hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec\pgnrestart\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 Chapter 1. An Introduction for Developers}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Chapter 1. An Introduction for Developers}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl456 {\*\bkmkstart _30}{\*\bkmkend _30}\b\fs41\f1 Chapter 1. An Introduction for Developers\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart _32}{\*\bkmkend _32}\fs34 Introduction\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  GNU Enterprise is a meta-project aimed at developing a complete enterprise level business environment. It will consist of tools to quickly build business applications. Several packages and modules will be available ready for out of the box use or readily available to extend or customize to your needs. There will be templates by industry type so you are only getting the base of what your industry type would use. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _35}{\*\bkmkend _35}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Why?\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Businesses seeking to move to digital processes often find themselves with limited options. They find themselves choosing between the following options.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Purchase proprietary shrink-wrapped software\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  This option has many drawbacks which include but are not limited to. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  The business is forced to adapt their processes to conform to the rigid requirements of the purchased software. \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  A single source for updates and maintenance. \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Their fate is tied to that specific vendor. \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Often such packages have high entry costs many small or new businesses can not readily afford. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \lang1033  \i Pay a consultant to create their software\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  This solution is better than a shrink-wrapped solution. The software is usually tailored to the exact business needs. It does have a few drawbacks however. The software is tied to a specific consultant or company, usually by copyright, in the same manner as shrink wrapped software. If the consultant closes down their business, their customers can be left without any means of support. If source code is not available the system can't be maintained. If the source code is available, a new consultant must be paid to learn the entire system before maintenance is possible. The unique nature of the system has left the business vulnerable. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Maintain an in-house programming team\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  This solution is better than paying a consultant if a business can afford the personnel needed to maintain the systems. But hiring only a single programmer leaves a business in the same position as with a consultant. Many smaller companies cannot afford several full-time programmers. The unique nature of the code requires all development and testing to be done in-house. Since the software isn't usually shared outside the business it doesn't get the levels of peer review needed to achieve the highest quality. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  None of these solutions provide a business with the security and freedom they deserve. Often businesses find themselves making compromises in their business practices and paying large sums of money to vendors they don't particularly care for simply because they are "locked in" to a specific solution. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  It doesn't need to be this way. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _58}{\*\bkmkend _58}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Features\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  \i Modular System Design\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj GNU Enterprise objects are defined at application run-time. This allows a system to be easily and rapidly modified by end users without risk of compromising the core system. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj A technically savvy business owner can browse a list of modules from a library on the GNU Enterprise site. She can pick various packages and modules that are of interest, install them via a tool like RPM, check out their features, remove the ones she doesn't like, finish up her testing and go live. As new packages and modules become available she can add and remove them as she desires (within reason). She ends up with a system that is exactly to her liking w/o the expense of hiring a consultant to customize the system. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj To achieve maximum modularity and be all things to all people within reason, GNUe is looking at the following approach. GNUe will be a set of tools to build business applications. With these tools modules will be built. Modules will be bundled by similar function to create packages. One problem in doing this is the different needs of different industries. A doctor has a very different billing situation than car dealer ship for instance. Therefore, there will be "templates" by vertical industry if need be. The concept is GNUe->Packages->Modules->Components where components can be reused among modules. Modules are bundled by type ex: accounts recievable, accounts payable, general ledger are bundled in accounting package. Then multiple packages make up GNUe. Then each vertical industry can have specific templates if desired to make customization minimal from set up to setup. (Further documentation and flow charts coming on this subject.) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Open Architecture\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Every effort has been made to open the GNU Enterprise system to developers and users. CORBA provides a clean interface to the objects that comprise a functional GNU Enterprise system. All data is stored in a relational database system. The database structures are well documented and accessible via standard SQL. XML is used to define forms that are parsed and executed by a wide variety of clients. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Powerful Development Framework\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj The base distribution of GNU Enterprise will contain several powerful tools. Tools like GNUE Forms, GNUE Reports, GEDI, GEAS and EWOK will allow developers to rapidly develop GNU Enterprise applications. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Consistency\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  Widespread deployment of GNU Enterprise will allow programmers to become familiar with the core GNU Enterprise components. They should require little time to get up to speed on a specific company's modifications to the code. This frees the programmer from learning the details of a unique system that is useless to them in other jobs. They can spend more time doing what they enjoy, writing code to solve unique problems. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Freedom from Single Source Vendors\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  A consultant can assure their customer that in the event they were unable to maintain the software it would be easy to find others familiar with the core system. This also provides the business some assurance that the consultant won't hold a monopoly on their systems, that they are free to let others work on their code. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Easy Maintenance\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  Since modules are used to store alterations to the system. Modifications made by the end site are stored separately from the generic distribution. Updates to the generic system can be applied without effecting local changes. Consultants need not maintain several virtually identical source trees with individual customer alterations, simple modules store all the changes. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Package Library\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  A person setting up an GNU Enterprise system would have access to growing number of packages for the system. These packages could be specialized for specific areas of business (manufacturing, legal, etc.) and would allow a programmer to produce a fairly specialized system in short period of time then tweak the system to meet the exact needs of the business. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Reuse of Free Software\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  Every effort has been made to reuse existing code and projects where feasible. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Versioning System\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Due to the modular nature of GNU Enterprise care must be taken to ensure that packages are compatible with one another. To ensure this level of compatibility every package and object must register it version level upon installation. This allows other packages and objects to specify which items, and versions of those items, that they are dependent upon. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Best Practices\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Because GNUe will be in use in a wide variety of industrys and will have influence from many developers as well as many users best practices will be developed. This allows companies new to the digital age or just forming to see how some well established companies are using technology and to build off their successes if they wish. In the future we see possibility of GNUe user groups as well as GNUe conferences and/or GNUe team showing presence at open source conferences. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  \i Internationalization\i0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj GNUe already has representation on development team from Austria, Spain, Belgium, Norway, Finland, Estonia, United States and others. Which guarantees strong support for both foreign currencies, multi-languages (docs and applications) as well as 24/7 developer end user support and close proximity for conference / user group attendance. Something not even large scale ERP products are doing well. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _95}{\*\bkmkend _95}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Examples\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 The best way to understand what GNU Enterprise does is through examples.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\s4\li960\sl264 {\*\bkmkstart _98}{\*\bkmkend _98}\b\fs24\lang1024\f1 High Level Demo\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb120\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 We'll start with a very high level demo which involves the sale of an item from inventory. The sale of this item has caused the inventory levels to drop below the reorder point (in this example there are no parts kept in stock so reorder point is zero) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  The entry of the sale into GNU Enterprise would cause the inventory system to review the part. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  The inventory levels are too low so either a purchase order could be automatically generated or the purchasing department could be notified with a request for purchase. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  Once the order is placed with the vendor the system tracks these tentative parts so that additional sales can be processed with approximated ship dates. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  When the parts arrive, their entry into the system alerts the shipping department with a list of orders that can now successfully be shipped. Accounting is notified that the order has been received and vendor payment is acceptable. The delivery efficiency of the vendor is tracked based upon the vendors promised delivery date vs the actual date of product arrival. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  The shipment of the parts cause an invoice to be generated of the accounting department that the customer should invoiced. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj  Payment from the customer closes the order. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\s4\li960\sl264 {\*\bkmkstart _107}{\*\bkmkend _107}\b\fs24\lang1024\f1 Consultants\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb120\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Consultants can use GNU Enterprise to reduce the time they spend maintaining custom solutions for their customer. In addition they can greatly increase the speed in which they can respond to customer requests. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj As an example we'll look at the steps Carl D. Consultant takes to install and customize GNU Enterprise to meet the needs of his customers. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj We'll first start at the local car dealership where Carl \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs GNU Enterprise - Core \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs the Car Dealer template(s)/package(s) which were created by some other car dealership. And, in the spirit of sharing uploaded to the GNU Enterprise package(s)/template(s) library. The template(s)/package(s) specifically.... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Modifies the CRM module included in the GNU Enterprise install to include a field to track a customers favorite type of car. \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Installs the needed components, modules, and packages to provide an auto maintenance history system to the repair shop. \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Tweaks the generic inventory module to handle issues specific to automobiles \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Installs the needed components, modules, and packages to maintain an auto parts counter \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs his custom birthday tracking component. The component specifically.... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Modifies the CRM module included a field to track a customers date of birth. \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Installs a component that generates a report of customer's upcoming birthdays. This allows the dealer to send birthday greetings to his prior customers. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs module(s) to add specific modifications to the system the car dealer requested. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \lang1033  At the local doctors office \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs GNU Enterprise - Core \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs the Medical Facility template(s)/package(s) which he created and maintains for this customer. He has also made these template(s)/package(s) available to others via the GNU Enterprise web site. The template(s)/package(s) specifically... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Adds features needed for insurance tracking \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Adds patient medical records tracking \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Install pharmacy template, found on GNU Enterprise web site, to maintain the local office's pharmacy. This template specifically.... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Tweaks inventory module to handle drug expiration \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Modifies CRM module to check current medical & check for drug interactions \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Altered his generic medical facility package to include features this customer did not want shared with other users of GNU Enterprise. Features they felt gave them a competitive advantage. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs his custom birthday tracking component \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs module(s) to add specific modifications to the system the car dealer requested. These modules specifically.... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \lang1033  At the local school \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16\lang1024 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs GNU Enterprise - Core \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs Maintenance template(s)/package(s), which was donated to GNU Enterprise, These template(s)/package(s) specifically.... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Tracks building maintenance \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Provides a preventative maintenance system \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs Education template created by the staff at O.P.U (Our Public University) and donated to GNU Enterprise. The template specifically.... \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Tweaks inventory module to deal the students not parts \hyphpar0\par\pard\li1360\ri200\sl198\fi-200\qj \tx1360 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs18  Adds sports event tracking module \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li1160\sl220\fi-200\qj \tx1160 \fs16 \'95\tab \fs20  Installs customizations he developed for the school to handle the schools odd dining system \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj \lang1033 All the modules above come with modification files for screens, new screen definitions, triggers, fields, objects, functions, etc. He verifies the systems, their screens, completes testing, trains the staff, and gets paid. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Now we release the new improved basic distribution (Now with 50% more bytes in every tarball!) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj He simply does something like \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj rpm -U generic-1.6.8.rpm \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj at all sites \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj He runs a few tests, charges the customer the upgrade fee. Or, because he's in and out so quickly his yearly maintenance fees are inexpensive so his customers don't mind subscribing to them. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj He's not burning any time merging GNU Enterprise updates into sections of code he had to alter for each business. He's not hand merging his screen changes into the system. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Kathy then releases a new Maintenance template that adds a feature the school has been talking about but would cost more than they care to spend on Carl to create. Carl says, "Tell you what, since you're such a good customer. And I'm such a great guy. We'll get it done for only $$ instead of $$$$". He does a \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj rpm -U maintenance-2.0.1 \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj tests, trains. Schools happy because they got their feature. Carl's happy because he's made a little money where he would have made none. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart _201}{\*\bkmkend _201}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Templates/Packages\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 It would be almost impossible for a small group of developers to oversee every aspect of GNU Enterprise. In order to deal with this complexity the project is decomposed into separate projects known as packages each with vertical industry templates. Each package consists of everything needed to provide a single feature set to GNU Enterprise. Templates are a way to group the packages by industry. For example, the GNUE Accounting package provides General Ledger, Accounts Payable, Accounts Recievable, etc. capabilities to the system. (More diagrams and explanations coming soon.) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _204}{\*\bkmkend _204}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Categories\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\s4\li960\sl264 {\*\bkmkstart _207}{\*\bkmkend _207}\b\fs24\lang1024\f1 Standard\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb120\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 For a package/template to be considered standard it must be developed within a specific set of guidelines. These guidelines ensure that the package will work on any system that has successfully installed the basic distribution. They also ensure that the package is friendly toward other GNU Enterprise packages. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj The basic distribution of GNU Enterprise will contain several packages that are determined to be essential to a majority of businesses. Only standard packages will be considered for inclusion in the basic distribution. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\s4\li960\sl264 {\*\bkmkstart _211}{\*\bkmkend _211}\b\fs24\lang1024\f1 Extended\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb120\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Extended packages are packages that have requirements beyond those of the standard package. They might require an administrator to install additional languages on the system. They must however meet compatibility requirements. Extended packages are considered safe to use they simply require additional effort during setup of the system. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\s4\li960\sl264 {\*\bkmkstart _214}{\*\bkmkend _214}\b\fs24\lang1024\f1 Unfriendly\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb120\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Unfriendly packages are the "hacks" that almost everyone has utilized at one time or another. They bypass all guidelines so they can "just get the job done". Updates to the system may cause these packages to break themselves, or the system. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _217}{\*\bkmkend _217}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Base Packages\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj {\*\bkmkstart _219}{\*\bkmkend _219}\fs20\f0 Table 1-1. Base Packages\sa100\keepn\par\trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  GNUe Core \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 The general GNU Enterprise Tools. GNUe Forms, GNUe Reports, GEDI, GEAS and EWOK. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Accounting \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Accounts recievable, Accounts Payable, General Ledger, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Budget Management \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Forecasting, Analysis, Controls, Auditing, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Customer Relationship Management \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Sales Management, Help Desk, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  E-commerce \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 E Shopping, E Merchandising, E Order Processing, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Human Resources \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Payroll, Time and Attendance, Benefits Management, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Project Management \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Resource Allocation, Cost Estimation, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Research and Development \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Bug Tracking, Statistics, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Supply Chain \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Inventory, purchase orders, etc. \sa60\cell \row \trowd\trleft960 \clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx4680\clvertalt\clbrdrt\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrb\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrl\brdrs\brdrw20\clbrdrr\brdrs\brdrw20\cellx8400 \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20  Point of Sale \sa60\cell \plain \pard\intbl\sb60\li40\ri100\sl220 \fs20 Point of Sale, Scanning, etc. \sa60\cell \row \pard\plain\sl-1\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb200\li960\sl220\qj \fs20\lang1033  The rest are to be determined. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _254}{\*\bkmkend _254}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Other Packages\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 None available yet.\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart _257}{\*\bkmkend _257}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Architecture\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Most GNU Enterprise programs are broken down along a N-Tier architecture. Which consists of \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _260}{\*\bkmkend _260}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Back-end\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 GNU Enterprise relies on a third party SQL based RDBMS for data storage. GEDI will allow support for a variety of database systems. (GEDI Proposal and information coming soon.) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Initial development efforts center around the usage of the PostgreSQL RDBMS or unixODBC. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _264}{\*\bkmkend _264}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Business Objects\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Business objects are the heart of the GNU Enterprise system. These CORBA enabled objects provide most of the business logic in the system. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _267}{\*\bkmkend _267}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 Application\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Applications can be broken down into two types, those that provide a user interface and those that do not. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj For applications that provide a UI this would be the logic behind the interface. It doesn't contain any business logic in most cases, that's one layer down. It contains the processes that occur when a trigger is fired from the ICL (button X is pressed, app has requested shutdown, menu item Y selected, etc.) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj If all ICLs support a standard set of form widgets, and a standard set of functions like get_functions required to provide a list of defined functions in the application. It seems possible to develop a nice IDE for simple apps along the lines of VB. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj An application could also be written at this level that would "simulate" the old SQL*Forms program (with all it's flaws and bonuses). It would bypass the lower levels and would make a nice GUI builder for direct table access (something we should probably avoid, but someone, somewhere will need it) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Most developers new to GNUe would work in at this level using only the higher level business objects and the IDE. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj The other type of applications would be applications that perform basic batch style processing on the GNUe objects. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _275}{\*\bkmkend _275}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 ICL\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Interface Client Level (aka Thin Client) \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj These programs are basically identical regardless of what language/platform they cover. They assume a certain number of procedures are available from applications. One of the most important would be a "get_ui" call that would tell the application to send a description of the form to be drawn (encoded in XML). These programs would handle mapping UI widgets we've defined as valid for an OBE user interface. Things like entries, labels, lists, picture, text, notebook tabs, triggers, etc. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb259\s2\sl380 {\*\bkmkstart _279}{\*\bkmkend _279}\b\fs34\lang1024\f1 Tools\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb173\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 GNU Enterprise will provide several tools that provide a powerful application development framework. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _282}{\*\bkmkend _282}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 GNUe Forms\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0  GnuE Forms actually consists of two separate programs. A designer which generates user interface definition files and a client which displays screens and accepts input from the user. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj The GnuE Forms painter provides developers with a system that allows rapid development of data entry screens. A developer simply chooses the objects and fields of interest and arranges the interface widgets to their liking. The system then generates a XML based interface definition file that is used by the clients. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj The GNUe Forms client reads the interface definition file produced by the designer and generates a data entry screen based upon its contents. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj Since the interface definition file is simple XML text it is very portable. Clients can be written for any number of display and data entry technologies and all utilize the same interface definition file. Thus building a single screen via the desinger instantly makes it available to all clients. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb100\li960\sl220\qj In addition programs can be written to communicate directly with a client using its XML interface definition language. This allows programmers to bypass limitations of the screen designer while retaining the robust, standardized front end clients. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _289}{\*\bkmkend _289}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 GNUe Reports\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 GNUe Reports shares many features with GNUe Forms. It is comprised of a report designer and a client that generates the requested output. Report definition files are also XML based. And programs can communicate directly with the XML reports definition language much like they can with GNUe Forms. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _292}{\*\bkmkend _292}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 GEDI (GNU Enterprise Data Interface)\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Data abstraction layer. Allows single API to all data sources. So the client has one set of calls it uses, but can access different vendors databases or even CVS or XML files. Similar to Borland's Database Engine or other data abstraction tiers. It will encompass much more than that and a proposal is forth coming. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _295}{\*\bkmkend _295}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 EWOK (Enterprise Wide Office Kommunication\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Integration for faxing, telephony and other such communcations with in GNUe. \hyphpar0\par\pard\sb216\s3\sl317 {\*\bkmkstart _298}{\*\bkmkend _298}\b\fs28\lang1024\f1 GEAS (GNU Enterprise Administration System)\keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb144\li960\sl220\qj \b0\fs20\lang1033\f0 Security administration and over GNUe administration functionality. More to come with proposal. \hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 Appendix A. GNU General Public License}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Appendix A. GNU General Public License}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl456 {\*\bkmkstart ID_APPENDIXES}{\*\bkmkend ID_APPENDIXES}{\*\bkmkstart _303}{\*\bkmkend _303}\b\fs41\f1 Appendix A. GNU General Public License \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl198\qj \b0\fs18\f2                     GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                       Version 2, June 1991\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
 Copyright (C) 1989, 1991 Free Software Foundation, Inc.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                       59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                            Preamble\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  The licenses for most software are designed to take away your\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
freedom to share and change it.  By contrast, the GNU General Public\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License is intended to guarantee your freedom to share and change free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
software--to make sure the software is free for all its users.  This\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
General Public License applies to most of the Free Software\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Foundation's software and to any other program whose authors commit to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
using it.  (Some other Free Software Foundation software is covered by\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the GNU Library General Public License instead.)  You can apply it to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
your programs, too.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  When we speak of free software, we are referring to freedom, not\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
price.  Our General Public Licenses are designed to make sure that you\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
have the freedom to distribute copies of free software (and charge for\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this service if you wish), that you receive source code or can get it\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
if you want it, that you can change the software or use pieces of it\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
in new free programs; and that you know you can do these things.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  To protect your rights, we need to make restrictions that forbid\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
anyone to deny you these rights or to ask you to surrender the rights.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
These restrictions translate to certain responsibilities for you if you\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute copies of the software, or if you modify it.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  For example, if you distribute copies of such a program, whether\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
gratis or for a fee, you must give the recipients all the rights that\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
you have.  You must make sure that they, too, receive or can get the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
source code.  And you must show them these terms so they know their\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
rights.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  We protect your rights with two steps: (1) copyright the software, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
(2) offer you this license which gives you legal permission to copy,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute and/or modify the software.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Also, for each author's protection and ours, we want to make certain\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
that everyone understands that there is no warranty for this free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
software.  If the software is modified by someone else and passed on, we\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
want its recipients to know that what they have is not the original, so\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
that any problems introduced by others will not reflect on the original\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
authors' reputations.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Finally, any free program is threatened constantly by software\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
patents.  We wish to avoid the danger that redistributors of a free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
program will individually obtain patent licenses, in effect making the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
program proprietary.  To prevent this, we have made it clear that any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
patent must be licensed for everyone's free use or not licensed at all.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  The precise terms and conditions for copying, distribution and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
modification follow.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                    GNU GENERAL PUBLIC LICENSE\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   TERMS AND CONDITIONS FOR COPYING, DISTRIBUTION AND MODIFICATION\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  0. This License applies to any program or other work which contains\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
a notice placed by the copyright holder saying it may be distributed\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
under the terms of this General Public License.  The "Program", below,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
refers to any such program or work, and a "work based on the Program"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
means either the Program or any derivative work under copyright law:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
that is to say, a work containing the Program or a portion of it,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
either verbatim or with modifications and/or translated into another\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
language.  (Hereinafter, translation is included without limitation in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the term "modification".)  Each licensee is addressed as "you".\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Activities other than copying, distribution and modification are not\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
covered by this License; they are outside its scope.  The act of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
running the Program is not restricted, and the output from the Program\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
is covered only if its contents constitute a work based on the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Program (independent of having been made by running the Program).\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Whether that is true depends on what the Program does.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  1. You may copy and distribute verbatim copies of the Program's\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
source code as you receive it, in any medium, provided that you\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
conspicuously and appropriately publish on each copy an appropriate\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copyright notice and disclaimer of warranty; keep intact all the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
notices that refer to this License and to the absence of any warranty;\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
and give any other recipients of the Program a copy of this License\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
along with the Program.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may charge a fee for the physical act of transferring a copy, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
you may at your option offer warranty protection in exchange for a fee.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  2. You may modify your copy or copies of the Program or any portion\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of it, thus forming a work based on the Program, and copy and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute such modifications or work under the terms of Section 1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
above, provided that you also meet all of these conditions:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    a) You must cause the modified files to carry prominent notices\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    stating that you changed the files and the date of any change.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    b) You must cause any work that you distribute or publish, that in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    whole or in part contains or is derived from the Program or any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    part thereof, to be licensed as a whole at no charge to all third\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    parties under the terms of this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    c) If the modified program normally reads commands interactively\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    when run, you must cause it, when started running for such\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    interactive use in the most ordinary way, to print or display an\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    announcement including an appropriate copyright notice and a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    notice that there is no warranty (or else, saying that you provide\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    a warranty) and that users may redistribute the program under\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    these conditions, and telling the user how to view a copy of this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    License.  (Exception: if the Program itself is interactive but\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    does not normally print such an announcement, your work based on\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    the Program is not required to print an announcement.)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
These requirements apply to the modified work as a whole.  If\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
identifiable sections of that work are not derived from the Program,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
and can be reasonably considered independent and separate works in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
themselves, then this License, and its terms, do not apply to those\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
sections when you distribute them as separate works.  But when you\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute the same sections as part of a whole which is a work based\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
on the Program, the distribution of the whole must be on the terms of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this License, whose permissions for other licensees extend to the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
entire whole, and thus to each and every part regardless of who wrote it.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Thus, it is not the intent of this section to claim rights or contest\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
your rights to work written entirely by you; rather, the intent is to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
exercise the right to control the distribution of derivative or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
collective works based on the Program.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
In addition, mere aggregation of another work not based on the Program\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
with the Program (or with a work based on the Program) on a volume of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
a storage or distribution medium does not bring the other work under\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the scope of this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  3. You may copy and distribute the Program (or a work based on it,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
under Section 2) in object code or executable form under the terms of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Sections 1 and 2 above provided that you also do one of the following:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    a) Accompany it with the complete corresponding machine-readable\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    source code, which must be distributed under the terms of Sections\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    1 and 2 above on a medium customarily used for software interchange; or,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    b) Accompany it with a written offer, valid for at least three\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    years, to give any third party, for a charge no more than your\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    cost of physically performing source distribution, a complete\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    machine-readable copy of the corresponding source code, to be\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    distributed under the terms of Sections 1 and 2 above on a medium\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    customarily used for software interchange; or,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    c) Accompany it with the information you received as to the offer\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    to distribute corresponding source code.  (This alternative is\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    allowed only for noncommercial distribution and only if you\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    received the program in object code or executable form with such\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    an offer, in accord with Subsection b above.)\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The source code for a work means the preferred form of the work for\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
making modifications to it.  For an executable work, complete source\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
code means all the source code for all modules it contains, plus any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
associated interface definition files, plus the scripts used to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
control compilation and installation of the executable.  However, as a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
special exception, the source code distributed need not include\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
anything that is normally distributed (in either source or binary\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
form) with the major components (compiler, kernel, and so on) of the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
operating system on which the executable runs, unless that component\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
itself accompanies the executable.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If distribution of executable or object code is made by offering\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
access to copy from a designated place, then offering equivalent\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
access to copy the source code from the same place counts as\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribution of the source code, even though third parties are not\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
compelled to copy the source along with the object code.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  4. You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Program\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
except as expressly provided under this License.  Any attempt\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
otherwise to copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Program is\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
void, and will automatically terminate your rights under this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
However, parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
parties remain in full compliance.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  5. You are not required to accept this License, since you have not\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
signed it.  However, nothing else grants you permission to modify or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute the Program or its derivative works.  These actions are\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
prohibited by law if you do not accept this License.  Therefore, by\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
modifying or distributing the Program (or any work based on the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Program), you indicate your acceptance of this License to do so, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
all its terms and conditions for copying, distributing or modifying\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the Program or works based on it.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  6. Each time you redistribute the Program (or any work based on the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Program), the recipient automatically receives a license from the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
original licensor to copy, distribute or modify the Program subject to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
these terms and conditions.  You may not impose any further\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
restrictions on the recipients' exercise of the rights granted herein.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You are not responsible for enforcing compliance by third parties to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  7. If, as a consequence of a court judgment or allegation of patent\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
infringement or for any other reason (not limited to patent issues),\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
conditions are imposed on you (whether by court order, agreement or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
otherwise) that contradict the conditions of this License, they do not\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
excuse you from the conditions of this License.  If you cannot\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute so as to satisfy simultaneously your obligations under this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License and any other pertinent obligations, then as a consequence you\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
may not distribute the Program at all.  For example, if a patent\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
license would not permit royalty-free redistribution of the Program by\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
all those who receive copies directly or indirectly through you, then\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the only way you could satisfy both it and this License would be to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
refrain entirely from distribution of the Program.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If any portion of this section is held invalid or unenforceable under\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
any particular circumstance, the balance of the section is intended to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
apply and the section as a whole is intended to apply in other\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
circumstances.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
It is not the purpose of this section to induce you to infringe any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
patents or other property right claims or to contest validity of any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
such claims; this section has the sole purpose of protecting the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
integrity of the free software distribution system, which is\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
implemented by public license practices.  Many people have made\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
generous contributions to the wide range of software distributed\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
through that system in reliance on consistent application of that\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
system; it is up to the author/donor to decide if he or she is willing\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
to distribute software through any other system and a licensee cannot\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
impose that choice.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
This section is intended to make thoroughly clear what is believed to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
be a consequence of the rest of this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  8. If the distribution and/or use of the Program is restricted in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
certain countries either by patents or by copyrighted interfaces, the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
original copyright holder who places the Program under this License\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
may add an explicit geographical distribution limitation excluding\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
those countries, so that distribution is permitted only in or among\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
countries not thus excluded.  In such case, this License incorporates\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the limitation as if written in the body of this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  9. The Free Software Foundation may publish revised and/or new versions\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of the General Public License from time to time.  Such new versions will\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
be similar in spirit to the present version, but may differ in detail to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
address new problems or concerns.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Each version is given a distinguishing version number.  If the Program\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
specifies a version number of this License which applies to it and "any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
later version", you have the option of following the terms and conditions\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
either of that version or of any later version published by the Free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Software Foundation.  If the Program does not specify a version number of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this License, you may choose any version ever published by the Free Software\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Foundation.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  10. If you wish to incorporate parts of the Program into other free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
programs whose distribution conditions are different, write to the author\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
to ask for permission.  For software which is copyrighted by the Free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Software Foundation, write to the Free Software Foundation; we sometimes\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
make exceptions for this.  Our decision will be guided by the two goals\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of preserving the free status of all derivatives of our free software and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of promoting the sharing and reuse of software generally.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                            NO WARRANTY\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  11. BECAUSE THE PROGRAM IS LICENSED FREE OF CHARGE, THERE IS NO WARRANTY\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
FOR THE PROGRAM, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW.  EXCEPT WHEN\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
OTHERWISE STATED IN WRITING THE COPYRIGHT HOLDERS AND/OR OTHER PARTIES\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
PROVIDE THE PROGRAM "AS IS" WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EITHER EXPRESSED\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  THE ENTIRE RISK AS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
TO THE QUALITY AND PERFORMANCE OF THE PROGRAM IS WITH YOU.  SHOULD THE\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
PROGRAM PROVE DEFECTIVE, YOU ASSUME THE COST OF ALL NECESSARY SERVICING,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
REPAIR OR CORRECTION.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  12. IN NO EVENT UNLESS REQUIRED BY APPLICABLE LAW OR AGREED TO IN WRITING\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
WILL ANY COPYRIGHT HOLDER, OR ANY OTHER PARTY WHO MAY MODIFY AND/OR\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
REDISTRIBUTE THE PROGRAM AS PERMITTED ABOVE, BE LIABLE TO YOU FOR DAMAGES,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
INCLUDING ANY GENERAL, SPECIAL, INCIDENTAL OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES ARISING\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
OUT OF THE USE OR INABILITY TO USE THE PROGRAM (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
TO LOSS OF DATA OR DATA BEING RENDERED INACCURATE OR LOSSES SUSTAINED BY\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
YOU OR THIRD PARTIES OR A FAILURE OF THE PROGRAM TO OPERATE WITH ANY OTHER\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
PROGRAMS), EVEN IF SUCH HOLDER OR OTHER PARTY HAS BEEN ADVISED OF THE\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
POSSIBILITY OF SUCH DAMAGES.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                     END OF TERMS AND CONDITIONS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
            How to Apply These Terms to Your New Programs\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  If you develop a new program, and you want it to be of the greatest\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
possible use to the public, the best way to achieve this is to make it\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
free software which everyone can redistribute and change under these terms.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  To do so, attach the following notices to the program.  It is safest\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
to attach them to the start of each source file to most effectively\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
convey the exclusion of warranty; and each file should have at least\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the "copyright" line and a pointer to where the full notice is found.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    -one line to give the program's name and a brief idea of what it does.-\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Copyright (C) 19yy  -name of author-\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    (at your option) any later version.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    GNU General Public License for more details.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Also add information on how to contact you by electronic and paper mail.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If the program is interactive, make it output a short notice like this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
when it starts in an interactive mode:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Gnomovision version 69, Copyright (C) 19yy name of author\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    Gnomovision comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY; for details type `show w'.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    This is free software, and you are welcome to redistribute it\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
    under certain conditions; type `show c' for details.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The hypothetical commands `show w' and `show c' should show the appropriate\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
parts of the General Public License.  Of course, the commands you use may\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
be called something other than `show w' and `show c'; they could even be\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
mouse-clicks or menu items--whatever suits your program.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You should also get your employer (if you work as a programmer) or your\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
school, if any, to sign a "copyright disclaimer" for the program, if\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
necessary.  Here is a sample; alter the names:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Yoyodyne, Inc., hereby disclaims all copyright interest in the program\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  `Gnomovision' (which makes passes at compilers) written by James Hacker.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  -signature of Ty Coon-, 1 April 1989\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  Ty Coon, President of Vice\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
This General Public License does not permit incorporating your program into\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
proprietary programs.  If your program is a subroutine library, you may\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
consider it more useful to permit linking proprietary applications with the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
library.  If this is what you want to do, use the GNU Library General\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Public License instead of this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  \hyphpar0\par\sect\sectd\plain\pgwsxn12240\pghsxn15840\marglsxn1920\margrsxn1920\margtsxn960\margbsxn480\headery0\footery0\pgndec\titlepg{\headerf\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerf\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}{\headerl\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 Appendix B. GNU Free Documentation License}\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\footerl\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\tab {}\tab {}\par}{\headerr\pard\sl-240\sb770\sa-50\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 Appendix B. GNU Free Documentation License}\par}{\footerr\pard\sl-240\sb-670\sa910\plain\tqc\tx4200\tqr\tx8400 {}\tab {}\tab {\i\fs20 \chpgn }\par}\pard\sb311\s1\sl456 {\*\bkmkstart _306}{\*\bkmkend _306}\b\fs41\f1 Appendix B. GNU Free Documentation License \keepn\hyphpar0\par\pard\sb207\li960\sl198\qj \b0\fs18\f2                GNU Free Documentation License\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
                   Version 1.1, March 2000\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
 Copyright (C) 2000  Free Software Foundation, Inc.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
     59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA  02111-1307  USA\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
 Everyone is permitted to copy and distribute verbatim copies\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
 of this license document, but changing it is not allowed.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
0. PREAMBLE\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The purpose of this License is to make a manual, textbook, or other\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
written document "free" in the sense of freedom: to assure everyone\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the effective freedom to copy and redistribute it, with or without\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
modifying it, either commercially or noncommercially.  Secondarily,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this License preserves for the author and publisher a way to get\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
credit for their work, while not being considered responsible for\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
modifications made by others.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
This License is a kind of "copyleft", which means that derivative\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
works of the document must themselves be free in the same sense.  It\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
complements the GNU General Public License, which is a copyleft\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
license designed for free software.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
We have designed this License in order to use it for manuals for free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
software, because free software needs free documentation: a free\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
program should come with manuals providing the same freedoms that the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
software does.  But this License is not limited to software manuals;\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
it can be used for any textual work, regardless of subject matter or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
whether it is published as a printed book.  We recommend this License\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
principally for works whose purpose is instruction or reference.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
1. APPLICABILITY AND DEFINITIONS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
This License applies to any manual or other work that contains a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
notice placed by the copyright holder saying it can be distributed\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
under the terms of this License.  The "Document", below, refers to any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
such manual or work.  Any member of the public is a licensee, and is\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
addressed as "you".\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
A "Modified Version" of the Document means any work containing the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Document or a portion of it, either copied verbatim, or with\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
modifications and/or translated into another language.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
A "Secondary Section" is a named appendix or a front-matter section of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the Document that deals exclusively with the relationship of the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
publishers or authors of the Document to the Document's overall subject\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
(or to related matters) and contains nothing that could fall directly\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
within that overall subject.  (For example, if the Document is in part a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
textbook of mathematics, a Secondary Section may not explain any\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
mathematics.)  The relationship could be a matter of historical\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
connection with the subject or with related matters, or of legal,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
commercial, philosophical, ethical or political position regarding\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
them.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The "Invariant Sections" are certain Secondary Sections whose titles\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
are designated, as being those of Invariant Sections, in the notice\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
that says that the Document is released under this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The "Cover Texts" are certain short passages of text that are listed,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
as Front-Cover Texts or Back-Cover Texts, in the notice that says that\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the Document is released under this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
A "Transparent" copy of the Document means a machine-readable copy,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
represented in a format whose specification is available to the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
general public, whose contents can be viewed and edited directly and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
straightforwardly with generic text editors or (for images composed of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
pixels) generic paint programs or (for drawings) some widely available\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
drawing editor, and that is suitable for input to text formatters or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
for automatic translation to a variety of formats suitable for input\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
to text formatters.  A copy made in an otherwise Transparent file\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
format whose markup has been designed to thwart or discourage\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
subsequent modification by readers is not Transparent.  A copy that is\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
not "Transparent" is called "Opaque".\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Examples of suitable formats for Transparent copies include plain\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
ASCII without markup, Texinfo input format, LaTeX input format, SGML\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
or XML using a publicly available DTD, and standard-conforming simple\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
HTML designed for human modification.  Opaque formats include\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
PostScript, PDF, proprietary formats that can be read and edited only\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
by proprietary word processors, SGML or XML for which the DTD and/or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
processing tools are not generally available, and the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
machine-generated HTML produced by some word processors for output\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
purposes only.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The "Title Page" means, for a printed book, the title page itself,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
plus such following pages as are needed to hold, legibly, the material\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
this License requires to appear in the title page.  For works in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
formats which do not have any title page as such, "Title Page" means\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the text near the most prominent appearance of the work's title,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
preceding the beginning of the body of the text.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
2. VERBATIM COPYING\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may copy and distribute the Document in any medium, either\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
commercially or noncommercially, provided that this License, the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copyright notices, and the license notice saying this License applies\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
to the Document are reproduced in all copies, and that you add no other\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
conditions whatsoever to those of this License.  You may not use\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
technical measures to obstruct or control the reading or further\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copying of the copies you make or distribute.  However, you may accept\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
compensation in exchange for copies.  If you distribute a large enough\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
number of copies you must also follow the conditions in section 3.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may also lend copies, under the same conditions stated above, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
you may publicly display copies.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
3. COPYING IN QUANTITY\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If you publish printed copies of the Document numbering more than 100,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
and the Document's license notice requires Cover Texts, you must enclose\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the copies in covers that carry, clearly and legibly, all these Cover\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Texts: Front-Cover Texts on the front cover, and Back-Cover Texts on\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the back cover.  Both covers must also clearly and legibly identify\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
you as the publisher of these copies.  The front cover must present\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the full title with all words of the title equally prominent and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
visible.  You may add other material on the covers in addition.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Copying with changes limited to the covers, as long as they preserve\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the title of the Document and satisfy these conditions, can be treated\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
as verbatim copying in other respects.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If the required texts for either cover are too voluminous to fit\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
legibly, you should put the first ones listed (as many as fit\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
reasonably) on the actual cover, and continue the rest onto adjacent\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
pages.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If you publish or distribute Opaque copies of the Document numbering\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
more than 100, you must either include a machine-readable Transparent\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copy along with each Opaque copy, or state in or with each Opaque copy\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
a publicly-accessible computer-network location containing a complete\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Transparent copy of the Document, free of added material, which the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
general network-using public has access to download anonymously at no\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
charge using public-standard network protocols.  If you use the latter\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
option, you must take reasonably prudent steps, when you begin\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribution of Opaque copies in quantity, to ensure that this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Transparent copy will remain thus accessible at the stated location\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
until at least one year after the last time you distribute an Opaque\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copy (directly or through your agents or retailers) of that edition to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the public.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
It is requested, but not required, that you contact the authors of the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Document well before redistributing any large number of copies, to give\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
them a chance to provide you with an updated version of the Document.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
4. MODIFICATIONS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may copy and distribute a Modified Version of the Document under\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the conditions of sections 2 and 3 above, provided that you release\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the Modified Version under precisely this License, with the Modified\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Version filling the role of the Document, thus licensing distribution\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
and modification of the Modified Version to whoever possesses a copy\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of it.  In addition, you must do these things in the Modified Version:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
A. Use in the Title Page (and on the covers, if any) a title distinct\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   from that of the Document, and from those of previous versions\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   (which should, if there were any, be listed in the History section\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   of the Document).  You may use the same title as a previous version\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   if the original publisher of that version gives permission.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
B. List on the Title Page, as authors, one or more persons or entities\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   responsible for authorship of the modifications in the Modified\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   Version, together with at least five of the principal authors of the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   Document (all of its principal authors, if it has less than five).\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
C. State on the Title page the name of the publisher of the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   Modified Version, as the publisher.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
D. Preserve all the copyright notices of the Document.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
E. Add an appropriate copyright notice for your modifications\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   adjacent to the other copyright notices.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
F. Include, immediately after the copyright notices, a license notice\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   giving the public permission to use the Modified Version under the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   terms of this License, in the form shown in the Addendum below.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
G. Preserve in that license notice the full lists of Invariant Sections\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   and required Cover Texts given in the Document's license notice.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
H. Include an unaltered copy of this License.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
I. Preserve the section entitled "History", and its title, and add to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   it an item stating at least the title, year, new authors, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   publisher of the Modified Version as given on the Title Page.  If\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   there is no section entitled "History" in the Document, create one\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   stating the title, year, authors, and publisher of the Document as\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   given on its Title Page, then add an item describing the Modified\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   Version as stated in the previous sentence.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
J. Preserve the network location, if any, given in the Document for\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   public access to a Transparent copy of the Document, and likewise\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   the network locations given in the Document for previous versions\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   it was based on.  These may be placed in the "History" section.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   You may omit a network location for a work that was published at\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   least four years before the Document itself, or if the original\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   publisher of the version it refers to gives permission.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
K. In any section entitled "Acknowledgements" or "Dedications",\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   preserve the section's title, and preserve in the section all the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   substance and tone of each of the contributor acknowledgements\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   and/or dedications given therein.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
L. Preserve all the Invariant Sections of the Document,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   unaltered in their text and in their titles.  Section numbers\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   or the equivalent are not considered part of the section titles.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
M. Delete any section entitled "Endorsements".  Such a section\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   may not be included in the Modified Version.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
N. Do not retitle any existing section as "Endorsements"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
   or to conflict in title with any Invariant Section.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If the Modified Version includes new front-matter sections or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
appendices that qualify as Secondary Sections and contain no material\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copied from the Document, you may at your option designate some or all\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of these sections as invariant.  To do this, add their titles to the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
list of Invariant Sections in the Modified Version's license notice.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
These titles must be distinct from any other section titles.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may add a section entitled "Endorsements", provided it contains\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
nothing but endorsements of your Modified Version by various\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
parties--for example, statements of peer review or that the text has\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
been approved by an organization as the authoritative definition of a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
standard.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may add a passage of up to five words as a Front-Cover Text, and a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
passage of up to 25 words as a Back-Cover Text, to the end of the list\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of Cover Texts in the Modified Version.  Only one passage of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Front-Cover Text and one of Back-Cover Text may be added by (or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
through arrangements made by) any one entity.  If the Document already\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
includes a cover text for the same cover, previously added by you or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
by arrangement made by the same entity you are acting on behalf of,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
you may not add another; but you may replace the old one, on explicit\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
permission from the previous publisher that added the old one.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The author(s) and publisher(s) of the Document do not by this License\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
give permission to use their names for publicity for or to assert or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
imply endorsement of any Modified Version.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
5. COMBINING DOCUMENTS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may combine the Document with other documents released under this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License, under the terms defined in section 4 above for modified\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
versions, provided that you include in the combination all of the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Invariant Sections of all of the original documents, unmodified, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
list them all as Invariant Sections of your combined work in its\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
license notice.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The combined work need only contain one copy of this License, and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
multiple identical Invariant Sections may be replaced with a single\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copy.  If there are multiple Invariant Sections with the same name but\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
different contents, make the title of each such section unique by\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
adding at the end of it, in parentheses, the name of the original\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
author or publisher of that section if known, or else a unique number.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Make the same adjustment to the section titles in the list of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Invariant Sections in the license notice of the combined work.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
In the combination, you must combine any sections entitled "History"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
in the various original documents, forming one section entitled\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"History"; likewise combine any sections entitled "Acknowledgements",\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
and any sections entitled "Dedications".  You must delete all sections\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
entitled "Endorsements."\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
6. COLLECTIONS OF DOCUMENTS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may make a collection consisting of the Document and other documents\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
released under this License, and replace the individual copies of this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License in the various documents with a single copy that is included in\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the collection, provided that you follow the rules of this License for\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
verbatim copying of each of the documents in all other respects.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may extract a single document from such a collection, and distribute\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
it individually under this License, provided you insert a copy of this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License into the extracted document, and follow this License in all\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
other respects regarding verbatim copying of that document.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
7. AGGREGATION WITH INDEPENDENT WORKS\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
A compilation of the Document or its derivatives with other separate\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
and independent documents or works, in or on a volume of a storage or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribution medium, does not as a whole count as a Modified Version\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of the Document, provided no compilation copyright is claimed for the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
compilation.  Such a compilation is called an "aggregate", and this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License does not apply to the other self-contained works thus compiled\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
with the Document, on account of their being thus compiled, if they\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
are not themselves derivative works of the Document.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If the Cover Text requirement of section 3 is applicable to these\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copies of the Document, then if the Document is less than one quarter\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of the entire aggregate, the Document's Cover Texts may be placed on\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
covers that surround only the Document within the aggregate.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Otherwise they must appear on covers around the whole aggregate.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
8. TRANSLATION\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Translation is considered a kind of modification, so you may\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
distribute translations of the Document under the terms of section 4.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Replacing Invariant Sections with translations requires special\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
permission from their copyright holders, but you may include\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
translations of some or all Invariant Sections in addition to the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
original versions of these Invariant Sections.  You may include a\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
translation of this License provided that you also include the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
original English version of this License.  In case of a disagreement\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
between the translation and the original English version of this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License, the original English version will prevail.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
9. TERMINATION\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
You may not copy, modify, sublicense, or distribute the Document except\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
as expressly provided for under this License.  Any other attempt to\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
copy, modify, sublicense or distribute the Document is void, and will\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
automatically terminate your rights under this License.  However,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
parties who have received copies, or rights, from you under this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License will not have their licenses terminated so long as such\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
parties remain in full compliance.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
10. FUTURE REVISIONS OF THIS LICENSE\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
The Free Software Foundation may publish new, revised versions\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of the GNU Free Documentation License from time to time.  Such new\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
versions will be similar in spirit to the present version, but may\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
differ in detail to address new problems or concerns. See\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
http:///www.gnu.org/copyleft/.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Each version of the License is given a distinguishing version number.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If the Document specifies that a particular numbered version of this\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
License "or any later version" applies to it, you have the option of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
following the terms and conditions either of that specified version or\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
of any later version that has been published (not as a draft) by the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Free Software Foundation.  If the Document does not specify a version\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
number of this License, you may choose any version ever published (not\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
as a draft) by the Free Software Foundation.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
ADDENDUM: How to use this License for your documents\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
To use this License in a document you have written, include a copy of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
the License in the document and put the following copyright and\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
license notices just after the title page:\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      Copyright (c)  YEAR  YOUR NAME.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      Permission is granted to copy, distribute and/or modify this document\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      under the terms of the GNU Free Documentation License, Version 1.1\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      or any later version published by the Free Software Foundation;\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      with the Invariant Sections being LIST THEIR TITLES, with the\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      Front-Cover Texts being LIST, and with the Back-Cover Texts being LIST.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      A copy of the license is included in the section entitled "GNU\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
      Free Documentation License".\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If you have no Invariant Sections, write "with no Invariant Sections"\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
instead of saying which ones are invariant.  If you have no\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
Front-Cover Texts, write "no Front-Cover Texts" instead of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
"Front-Cover Texts being LIST"; likewise for Back-Cover Texts.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
If your document contains nontrivial examples of program code, we\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
recommend releasing these examples in parallel under your choice of\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
free software license, such as the GNU General Public License,\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
to permit their use in free software.\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
\sa0\par\fi0\sb0
  \hyphpar0\par}
